[AUDIO LOGO]
>> I'm Sarah Elkhaldy, and
this is Mystery Teachings.
Have you experienced a moment
where reality seemed to glitch?
Like something didn't quite
match up with your memory.
What if the shifts we feel
aren't just coincidences,
but the subtle unraveling
of reality itself?
This mysterious phenomenon has
been called the Mandela effect.
Could this be proof that
we're living in a multiverse?
The name Mandela
effect was coined
by people who had noticed two
distinct, different timelines
that the population at large had
a collective memory around it.
One group of the
population vividly
remembers that Nelson
Mandela had died in prison.
The other group remembers
that he not only left prison,
he went on to be the
president of South Africa.
This phenomenon
is any time there
is more than one collective
memory around an event,
or an aspect of reality, where
large populations of people
remember a specific
version of reality.
But we are not currently
on the timeline
where that version
of reality exists.
The Mandela effect
is a phenomenon
of parallel realities,
time, and choice.
It is not caused by one,
single, standalone reason.
Rather, it is produced by
multiple different origins
that all can lead to the
glitches that we see.
Even if we experience
the Mandela effect
through the faculty of memory,
its implications are far deeper
and reveal there are esoteric
laws to this reality that we
must become aware of.
There are three dominant aspects
that this phenomenon operates
as.
But keep in mind, there are less
definable and far more subtle
causes to this as well.
The first is when our
collective timeline
has shifted to a parallel
version of reality.
A timeline that is just as
real as the timeline we are on,
but that it had an
alternate experience
with alternate outcomes.
Just like how many people had
alternate memories of Nelson
Mandela, and that only some of
the people within the collective
remember the past timeline
because they did not fully
integrate into the new timeline.
The second major reason
of this phenomenon
is due to retrocausality.
Retrocausality proposes
that future events
can have an impact
on past events,
challenging the traditional
understanding of cause
and effect as a
forward-moving process.
And an analogy of
retrocausality could
be like the butterfly effect.
The butterfly effect suggests
that small, seemingly
insignificant
actions or events can
lead to large and
unpredictable consequences.
Such as a butterfly
flapping its wings,
and then that tiny
movement causes
a chain of events
that eventually
leads to a massive tsunami.
The third dominant way that the
Mandela effect can be produced
is by a collective choice point.
A choice point is a
significant and crucial point
when the direction of
the future is made.
The majority of people
are not consciously
aware of a choice point.
It is usually a choice made
at the subconscious level.
When a collective
reaches a choice point,
you may see many Mandela
effects because you're
really seeing a crucial
choice point unfolding.
And it may look like
subtle or huge glitches
because those glitches are
moving toward and responding
to a teleological vein.
So they have a larger
purpose and design,
much like a magnet is moving
powerfully to its attractor,
even if we can't perceive
where or what is attracting it.
Some common examples of how this
Mandela effect is taking place,
even at mundane levels
right in front of our eyes,
is through the cornucopia logo
that Fruit of the Loom had
in the '90s, but now totally
says they didn't have,
or the spelling change of the
word fruit in the Froot Loops
logo, Starbucks, Sketchers.
Not only will we remember
brand logos differently,
like those of KitKat, Oscar
Mayer, or Looney Tunes,
but we will also notice some
of our beloved childhood
characters, like Curious
George or even Pikachu,
changing before our very eyes.
Or how Darth Vader clearly
said, "Luke, I am your father,"
and now somehow that got turned
into, "No, I am your father."
I could go on.
All of these are so
many different ways
that the Mandela effect is
perceived through our reality,
but they may not
all be responding
to one particular effect
or one contributing factor.
This is how odd
this phenomenon is.
It doesn't even need to be
a very large and compelling,
or even important event.
It could be something that just
really confuses us, and even can
perturb us.
So when we're looking
at the Mandela effect
through all of these
different lenses of it being
both subtle and gross,
what we're really doing
is seeing that
reality itself can
morph into any which way that
just suits whatever that higher
purpose or that
higher design that
was represented by that choice
point is really depicting.
And that's what's happening.
It's not for the sake of showing
us very small alternate versions
of reality.
Instead, it's twisting reality
in whatever minor or major ways
that it needs to in order to
reach that invisible design
and that invisible goal.
So how does a timeline win?
How does a collective
memory override
another collective memory?
The Mandela effect is responding
to our collective frequency.
That is what determines
which collective memory
we are living in.
The physical is a representation
of the metaphysical.
What this means is you can
look at how a wave collapses
into the ocean to
better understand
an even larger process
taking place beyond the ocean
and inside the sea of
consciousness itself.
The wave also
represents the process
of how reality is transported
from a potential state,
or superposition state,
into a formative state
before it is fully realized
and traverses back into itself.
How this connects to the Mandela
effect is through frequency.
How aware we become
alters our actions,
and our actions
impact our awareness
in a feedback loop that
rhythmically resembles a wave.
All of this alters our
frequency and the frequency
of the timeline we are
visually perceiving.
So the Mandela effect also is
heavily impacted by timelines
that we are syncing up with
through our personal frequency,
and then at our
collective frequency.
So what this means is that a
person standing right next to us
doesn't even need to be
on the same exact timeline
that we are on.
So a person standing
right next to us
can be on a completely
different timeline,
but we share a core resonance
within that spectrum
of a bandwidth.
Because how frequency
works is that it operates
within a bandwidth of a domain.
And this domain is what
we call a dimension.
So then the question becomes,
what creates frequency?
Frequency is the
combination of our thoughts,
our emotions, our actions.
And then all of
those three, they're
combined into our awareness.
So awareness is the
larger driving force
behind a frequency.
Well, the other
driving points that
are still valid and are
still feeding into and still
contributing their
input into frequency
are those thoughts,
feelings, and actions.
The awareness is what
governs our frequency.
And when we have a larger
awareness, now what we're doing
is having more liberating
and more positive thoughts.
We're having an
ability to integrate
and an ability to
really be with all
of our emotional state, which
allows it to naturally always
gravitate into
higher vibrations.
And then, our actions.
Now this is so important,
because we are only
as real as our actions.
We are theoretical until we
are in practice, not theory.
So our actions play a strong
driving force as well,
because our actions
are what create
the different circumstances
and the different causes
and effects that then
reinforce our frequency.
So frequency has many
different channels
that it's being input into.
And the more that we raise our
frequency through our awareness,
through our thoughts,
emotions, and actions,
now we start experiencing
entirely different timelines.
So the Mandela
effect can also be
looked at as a trail of
artifacts that are all pointing
to different timelines.
They're almost like
a ghost footprint
of metaphysical evidence
that reality isn't always
operating in a linear
past, present, and future.
But we become most aware
of this phenomenon the more
that we awaken.
And this is just a
common trope that we
see while we're going through
a spiritual awakening journey.
It's usually
something that people
notice who are already invested
in growing their awareness.
So, we become far
more conscious of all
of the different
intricacies and the ways
that reality is distorted around
whatever our current frequency
is of the collective.
When these collective memories
have large momentum behind them,
then what we actually
see is almost
like a conflict or a merger
between different timelines.
So, the natural
question becomes,
how does one timeline
absorb or merge
the other timelines into it?
And we can look at this
from the standpoint
of our collective frequency,
because the collective frequency
is what will
ultimately determine
what collective
memories actually
exist inside our timeline.
So this phenomenon
does not suggest
that one reality is more
real than the other version
and the other collective
memory of reality.
Instead, what this
is really pointing to
is that there are so many
alternate versions of reality,
and so many different versions
of how a timeline can manifest.
So all these different
subtle and major ways
that were affected
by this phenomenon
can also really lead us to a
larger and really philosophical
question, which is, what is
a dominant timeline anyways?
What if a dominant
timeline is just
the mosaic of multiple
versions of reality
that are all being projected
into one version of reality?
And so, instead of them
competing with one another,
they're all just contributing
to this one reality.
And then that dominant
timeline wouldn't even
be objective and linear.
It would be more like
a huge collaboration
of the whole multiverse.
So, what if all of those
versions of reality
are being projected
onto this timeline?
But that, whichever one that
we have the frequency that
is most in resonance to
experience and to perceive
is the one that gets
manifested, is the one that gets
actualized for us?
As we raise our frequency,
we could potentially
be more aware of all of
the different glitches,
of all of the different
versions of reality
that are projected onto
a dominant timeline.
So, even if we're experiencing a
very clear and objective version
of reality, which is
what we're calling
a dominant timeline, when
we continue to evolve
our consciousness and therefore
our frequency continues
to increase, we're starting to
see so many different layers
of reality.
And this is really what's
fun about the Mandela effect.
It's that free will
gives us the agency
to attract and have a
specific timeline move forward
into our reality.
So the more aware we become of
just how much our reality is
experiencing these
glitches, that
can put us into fear
sometimes because we
might start thinking that
now the powers that were
are doing things to manipulate
our reality beyond our control,
pointing to some futility
or disempowerment
that humanity has.
When, in fact, it's the
complete opposite, and sometimes
we just like to create
ideas to oppress ourselves.
In reality, the
Mandela effect is just
showing us how
aware we've become
to see that reality
itself is malleable.
Whatever way we make that
mean, and whatever way
we want to interact with that
truth that reality is malleable,
will be left up to each
of us individually.
So even though our
frequency is what
determines the dominant timeline
that we will be experiencing,
we also get so much free will
on what we make this all mean.
And that's really
the best indication
of when a person is in
their spiritual sovereignty.
And they use that sovereignty to
define what the Mandela effect
and what this phenomenon
means to them.
And they use that to
make it mean something
that is more empowering, and
possibly even more positive
than we would have
actually even perceived it.
The Mandela effect
reveals the profound truth
that reality is fluid, shaped
by the collective consciousness
and our vibrational state.
We're not just
passive observers.
Our consciousness is actively
creating and shifting
the world around us.
As we rise in frequency,
we unlock the power
to shape our timeline.
Stepping into a reality where
infinite possibilities exist.
[THEME MUSIC]